<h1>Tatters – Future Connection</h1>
<p>This project disrupts linear and narratival formulations of art by arguing that all art is essentially non-linear and situated at the confluence of narrative and power.  To do this we made a mechanically interesting environment containing an aesthetically restricted or consistent set of material that would produce diverse and unexpected outcomes.  Subverting common “control variables” such as are chronology and succession this experiment imagines music in a place that is not at the mercy of those strictures.  A consequence of this was the sacrifice of a mature and complex musical structure as human organisations of musical material are almost impossible to hardcode.  The trade-off as we saw it was to allow a degree of aleatory and experimentation in exchange for a deterministic structure, settling for a variety of possible outcomes and textures to provide structural evolution.</p>
<p>We also attempted to translate these pragmatic concerns into our theoretical approach and to allow these thoughts to bubble to the surface of the physical work itself.  Mainstream culture’s specific modalities – social, economic, expressions of kinship, sexual, racial – are essentially normative and have come to express themselves in uncritical and dependable ways: music making can conform to a few basic assumptions of heteronormative, patriarchal and white supremacist norms.  To avoid these we embraced chance, rootless speculation, non-linear storytelling, non-deterministic composition, humorous quotations, multiple identities, and a disregard for authentic urtexts.  We have created work that is somewhat out of our hands, generating seeds or shapes of ideas to be carried away by listeners.</p>
<p>However we have also made some other discoveries that go beyond our original aims: primarily that it takes a lot of organisation and setting up of initial parameters to set in motion a truly evolving piece of music with options for further development beyond the original setting.  Anything less than this ends up in uninteresting chaos.  Another lesson is that no medium is entirely free of artistic mediation.  We originally set out to provide an environment without guidance or structure, a musical playground.  This however, proved to be as uninteresting as the disorganised chaos and we had much more fun providing a set of seemingly meaningful boundaries which visitors could accept as guiding principles or flout openly and mischievously.</p>
<p>As appearances go, this site does do what we thought it might: i.e. flap around messily but provide a weird set of evocative symbols magnified by the ambiguous setting that we couldn’t have provided with an album or performance.  Neither of these two forms are suitable for the presentation of an archive or a convincing display of work seemingly from a vast array of artists.  The online format allows us to take a step back and not force a temporality on the visitor.  Crucially, the visitor is also complicit in the messiness as they act neither as organiser nor as interpreter but as explorer and co-conspirator.  How far they travel into this chaos and the extent to which their engagement realises the latent possibilities is the essential metric of success rather than the completeness or authenticity of our own expressions.</p>
<p>Finally, it is important to evaluate the way in which visitors to the site interact with and adapt to the environment.  We take as formative an idea from Judith Butler that we quoted earlier: “an emerging and unpredictable assemblage of positions cannot be figured in advance”.  An interesting project will be to come back to this work in a year’s time and to collate the opinions of the various visitors.  We intend for some of these opinions to further shape the growth of the site, perhaps going as far as to installing a “visitor’s book” for users to leave their advice, opinions, suggestions and praise (lots of the latter).  Any project that deals directly with the kinds of systems of oppression that we have analysed here must also have its own robust channel of self-examination and critique which allows viewpoints we either do not possess or have the right to assume to come to light.  We started at the centre of the labyrinth and will continue to work outwards but this growth does not negate the effectiveness of the inner passageways.  </p>
