From this hilltop I can look out across the familiar night strewn fields towards the crown of light that is my now forgotten home-town nestled amongst the old palms of held close to the flint bones and mossy skin.  The white-ish earth curves away from my feet in all directions closing in a globe an unimportant distant away.  From here the sky makes sense and it blushes and sighs in the throes of my attention.  From here the bridge can forever attempt to the span the depth and the path forever mislaid in the jumble and confusion of coordinates and memories.  From here the night sky exists, bent and contorted and recurved around my hillside until it screams in agony, the beautiful torment reaching me slowly across the years.
I bend to kiss the earth.  Without it I could not have come here.
At the start there was pretty much nothing.  Every day I sit and appreciate a few messy encounters and coincidences that laid the groundwork for changes that would later leave me gasping awake from dreams that clouded my reality with spectres or have me stopping mid-sentence to fully thin through a sliver of thought that had passed my way and asked for directions.
We put a lot of faith in coincidence but in fact coincidences cannot happen without preparation.  This preparation is a secret.  It is happening now in anticipation of tomorrow.  I walked in this door and got this job and the trials I passed through, although boring at the time, were subtly pulling me apart and examining all the component parts so that, when the time came to face the whole mess of friendships and mistakes, I was not left on my own without instructions.  
I am changed.  I passed through a strange and disturbingly old threshold to the understanding that I am connected inexorably and heartbreakingly to those I had come to love.  I did not even know that I loved and was loved but it was made plain to me fairly quickly.  I was sent postcards and sent my own.  Unfamiliar stars were pointed out to me and I passed on third-hand wisdom that I was pleased to see was new and exciting to the attentive listeners.  This was accomplished with the hard graft of everyday peopleness.  People are miserable shits, grumpy and scared.  But my mind needs inhabitants and I didn’t need to work hard to populate my growing community.  Change has already happened, it just takes something (more often than not that something is a something) to unbalance the scales and so the teetering apparatus comes crashing down and, although you are left with pieces scattered harum-scarum, they make interesting patterns on the floor.
The hillside is cold.  The earth supports my weight but in an indifferent way, one that could support any weight were it to plonk itself down on this same spot.  Although the south west wind crawls and gusts over the bent-bow curve of the down there is no better place to see the sky.  The earth is a frame catching and curating the random movements and erratic pulses playing out above.  I chose this spot and here I must stay for the time being if I wish to see the sunrise, as what hope is there for change without a comfortable spot to view the unrolling past?
