`<h1>Histories iii</h1>
<h2>Written by Hendra Wednesday</h2>
<p>It wasn’t very easy, at that time, with one of us living in the middle of nowhere and the other in living in a small flat in a busy city.  Autumn’s flat was really very tiny and the neighbours had issues with even small amounts of noise past 7pm.  It was rather beautiful though, old wooden floors and single glazed windows, a blocked-up fireplace and all the woodwork painted in faded, soft greens and blues.  It was a place of small quiet. </p>
<p>The summer was allowed to come inside every year after it had grown out of its boisterous youth.  Around that time, early in the morning the sky would be a brittle, seashell blue and the air, sweet and damp in its morning apparel drifted amongst the rooftops and gritty garden walls looking for a place to bed down for the day.  Walking home at this time was like creeping through a sleeping house.  For a loud city, the dawn was always a subdued affair and watchful in its solitude, not at all sleepy or drowsy.  This is a city of extroverts but the dawn is reserved, as far back as we can remember, for still seclusion, a time for remembering and noticing, shy revealing and understanding, fresh from the crowded night time.  </p>
<p>For the night times are crowded and boisterous here - the witching hour, the midnight reversal, the moon’s kingdom don’t really work.  Its too loud, the subjects of dusk can’t be heard and we don’t want to listen.  They say that London and New York are cities that never sleep but you could quite easily say that about our home too.  The dawn is time for these things, the time of magic and mystery, mystery without depth but also lacking in calm shallows.  This is the time stories are told and friends gather closer, as the sky lightens, to tell secrets and hear the hidden voices among the rooftops.  Moonlight is said to change the aspect of things but here it is the dawn-light, the reversing of dusk.  If twilight alters and hides, then dawn reveals – peeling back cement and tarmac, embroidering weeds and climbers, dusting shelves and thresholds.</p>
<p>For myself, it was all very different.  I was secluded in a house that had burrowed itself into the shoulders of the hills.  At night strange beast stalked around the walls and owls ruffled the curtains.  Bats kept me company in the chimneys and hares traversed the lanes of my front garden at morning light.  In the city, the silence was of one holding their breath, collective intensity and focus; din was the clatter of relaxing and unloading.  Out here the silence is absence, we are all much more aware of our woodland neighbours.  Noise is a landmark, a call or message painted in stark lines across the blank canvas.  The nights were multitudinous, crowding expanses of sky and hill.  We all breathed as one and felt the receding heat of the day brush through the treetops, settling darkness and an acceptance of the loss of that particular sense.  Rustling things went about their business and whispered conversations were held, hurries so as not to be overheard, in the hedgerows and amongst the bare rock and scrub in the high places.  I could sit and listen to what the badgers were saying, or the ravens.  The muttering voices crept into the emptiness and shrunk my rooms to the edges of my consciousness.  Drifting wood smoke and waiting – I was always slow to raise my voice or play too loudly in case someone heard.</p>
<p>We were very far apart.  I had no car and cycled to the nearest metro stop, about an hour away south.  Or I could get local buses that dropped me in far flung suburbs.  Autumn did have a car but it was terrible, always breaking down at the least opportune moments.  We saw little of each other and he music from those periods is spare and narrow.  We wrote a lot and I took up painting while autumn fiddled endlessly with electronic gadgets.</p>`  
