`<h1>chapter :): Paths to nowhere</h1>
<p>I have been walking and cycling these roads for the best part of my time here.  I have lived in many places but this is my base and home where I grew up even though I spend the majority of my time now elsewhere.  It is the large and blank, smooth and crisp sheet on which I scatter my scraps for collage or ink for writing.  It gives shape to the contours of my new homes.  The ground bubbles up from time to time and dislodges the foundations of everything it supports giving new and fascinating curves to once straight brickwork.</p>
<p>Which is why I am fascinated to find so many new paths.  I have a new set of eyes with me visiting from the north and my old home which means I am unusually sensitive to change and disruption in the way I lay the landscape of familiarity over the raw matter of the valleys and hills.  My new eyes don’t actually point anything out (how could they – it’s all new and exciting to them) but all the same I see new fissures and edges and subtle architectures that I would not have seen before without the unravelling folds of a friend’s perspective.</p>
<p>This place is a foundation, fixity and routine are important parts of its structure giving it coherence and strength.  It seems that over the years and during my continual use of this route I have closed up several pathways that lead in different directions.  After a time they become more and more obscured as my attention is drawn to maintaining this main route which must, at first, have been no different from its hidden siblings.  That first exploration sketched out the faint markers on the rough earth to be gouged deeper into the chalk with each successive trip down this quiet lane.</p>
<p>As such they are paths to nowhere.  They dip and meander as the earth contorts beneath them, wheel ruts filled with gravel and flourishing plant-life, grass growing merrily in the raised centre.  Beyond them lies nothing.  Often they fall down into a depression which gives the visitor, teetering on the edge of their well-known lane and the new and untrodden break, a clear line of sight down the holloway which abruptly ends at a curtain of green leaves and withy as if walled off, further vision forbidden.</p>
<p>We could keep walking for ever.  We have gone only so far on my track patterned with the fading marks of my old footsteps but at some point the friction between what I once knew and the restlessness caused by new eyes and feet and hands hurls us off the paths I unthinkingly maintained and into new territory, down these paths to nowhere on which my knowledge of my home country will be useless.  It has taken very little for threadwork beneath my feet to be snagged and worried, unwinding and spooling into unruly piles.</p>
<p>There are loads of them and I had never realised.  Down we stumble and up we scramble getting our knees dirty.  My old routes were docile and lay still as I walked and cycled and ran and I am unused to the movement of something so new and unstable.  Breaking through the network of mapped memory is exhilarating but disturbing and soon we are tired.  When we return I am startled to find my old and familiar paths a mess of weeds and bracken, riotous growth set loose by the tremors of crumbling maps.</p>
<p>We wander on.  It is a cool day and we are content to dawdle down the roads stopping to look at interesting stretched of river and meandering all over the centre of tarmac.  Quite a few cars pass us and a not insignificant amount of cyclists.  We are the only ones not wearing Lycra and later on I see that we are the only ones to have forgotten lights.  The cars are impatient to get past but the cyclists just grin and say “good afternoon” as they speed past down the hills or, depressingly, up them.  Everyone is going somewhere and needs to be there quickly.  We have somewhere to go but we are also very aware of the quiet peacefulness of the valley in-between the passing cars which have unfortunately become more frequent over the years.  I get the feeling that we are using the roads improperly.  These paths have passed into the rough hands of commuters and drivers who need to get somewhere fast.  They are lanes of travel.  The old keepers also used them this way but could not have argued with the two young people out enjoying a gently bike ride amongst the river’s turns and drooping trees.  Hammered in this way the main road route is deepened at the expense of the paths to nowhere.</p>
<p>It is the way this part of the world is turning.  Recently some very large estates have been built to the north of my home and the southward gravity pulls them inevitably through my city, scraping the arteries and squeezing through the capillary beds.  The travellers have sought easier routes at rush hour which means these quiet village lanes have become crowded by people trying to get home.  We came here to leave home.  In the end I suppose a by-pass will be suggested and the traffic bled off to the west or east but this will undoubtedly cause more disruption and confusion elsewhere as the price for draining my quiet lanes for a few years.</p>
<p>As we run away without thoughts for the inevitable return in a few hours I catch ever more intriguing glimpses of these nowhere channels, these horizon paths.  I take my pencil as we stop by a brick wall at the side of the road and mark my map with their position and possible routes into the unknown covering, as I do so, the faded but several times renewed tracings of earlier days.</p>`
