I can feel the twisting going on inside me.  It is fairly uncomfortable.  My muscles and bones are not meant to be distended in this manner and they protest with unusually soft voices.  Parts stretch whilst others bend and still others compress.  I would scream if I had discovered my mouth a few months earlier and become comfortable with its mechanisms.
At precise points across my body the intensities spring and arc through dense tissue, ricocheting amongst bone walls antagonising fault lines I had thought were hidden deep and forgotten.
It is my own fault really.  For so long I have kept myself away from any actual engagement with other people and muffled the sounds of my emotional growth in case someone might hear it.  I didn’t even realise I was doing it but all it takes is a short course of intense friendship and the willingness on the part of someone close to talk to you about the grisly details of relationships.  For my part I have not been taught properly – men aren’t as a rule.  We hide everything away and never let anyone catch the slightest tendril of inner motion.
We stayed up late at night and talked amongst the soft sounds of sleepy neighbourhoods and the long, drawn out cooling of the summer heat drifting between high walls and rooftops.  We brushed our thoughts together and let them fall entwined on the ground at our feet where we did not pick them up.  I found them still there in the morning and have kept them with me ever since.  The patterns are disturbing and familiar and they speak from the bottom of my memory.  
I am amazed that a conversation has affected me so deeply.  All we did was talk.  All we did was do what friends do, drink a cup of tea late at night and laugh.  Emotions and outpourings are for girls I was told.  Men don’t gossip.  Men don’t need feelings.  They keep quiet and do all the dirty work.  Get a girl, fuck, marry, work.  Friends are there to go to the pub with.  No one told me that friends bloody their hands and scrape the skin from their shoulders to keep the roof from falling in and the river washing the soil away.
Our low voices, murmuring in the dust and warm, remains of our life here.  In sympathy my body creaks and moans as I at last let in the day light to touch the faded rooms I have shut off and let rot.  They will be aired and warmed and filled with light and close friends.  They will house guests and family.  The keys, long lost in a cupboard have been chanced upon by the quietly shattering words of a person I did not know had approached so close.
