"The continual renewal of patterns and constellations can be dangerous to some.  Its not really the content of the patterns, the patterns themselves, but the fact that they are patterns that tangles and binds so many.  It becomes easy after a while to see the algorithms, the language or the scripts that generate the multitude.  One of the things we have noticed during all this work is that it is far easier and far more satisfying to create something simple that, all by itself, writes new and ever-changing complications.  Start somewhere small and allow it to blossom.  You might get family resemblances, like snowflakes, but that doesn’t matter.Others will write these patterns for you and before long you will notice that these patterns have disappeared.  They never actually disappear, they just become unnoticeable, like a good film soundtrack.  You live your life by them because that is what we always have done.  We rise and then we go back to bed.  The joy comes when you take pleasure in enacting these dances.  No one is looking but we are still acting, fulfilling the parts we have written ourselves.  I get up every morning and make a cup of coffee, then make breakfast (the other way around is too anxious, the toast goes cold) and then I sit and read and allow my brain to catch up.  These are scripts and they are fun to play, to get the character right.  Someone told me once that to play a character deeply and believably you must imagine a backstory, the motivations for getting up and making a coffee before fiddling with the old toaster.Taking notice of these patterns is of great importance because not all of them are beneficial and most are not written by ourselves.  A white woman walking her dog without a lead in Central Park calls the police after Christian Cooper asks her politely to put her dog on the lead in this part of the park.  The woman cries hysterically that a black man is threatening to attack her.As of today, 65,700 have died and “the war” has not yet finished.  We are not sisters and brothers, but soldiers bound by an enemy that force and prejudice will overcome.If you’re trapped in the dream of the other, you’re fucked.",
