`<h1>Chapter (((: the new rules</h1>
<p>I am moving very fast, at last, in the new direction.  I have a vague idea that there are objects spinning from my grasp and disappearing down the cracks that inevitably open up as the unstable tectonics start to grumble and shift.  I have probably lost a lot but I won’t find out until I need something or remember something.  They will only be small items, falling on the floor and bouncing under dressers and such.  Forgotten on doorsteps or left in the back seats of cars.  Occasionally something bigger will have been accidentally discarded but this is fairly rare and only passingly annoying.  I once left a large saucepan and the top part of an immersion blender in a flat I was moving out of.</p>
<p>The vortex and the uncontrollable and chaotic shifting under my feet make some things dreadfully clear.  I am left to stare them down or enjoy the fleeting instances as they pass swiftly through my fingers.  We like to believe that we are in control of our solid identities; we can choose which parts to stick onto ourselves or adopt in our dress sense.  The truth is that we are unsafe.  We are not defenders on top of a high stone wall or behind old oak gates.  There are far more cracks and channels through which water can trickle and expand than we like to acknowledge.  In the end, if we open ourselves, even just a little, to a place that has caught our eye then we allow certain elements to bleed through our skin, into our ears and to seep into our eyes and nose.  These things start to change our basic physiognomy very quickly and the processes are regrettably/excitingly one way. </p>
<p>We are not actually in charge.  Our peacocking consciousness likes to believe they are the boss of contingent situations, the doormen of the exclusive club letting in the glamourous and turning away or ejecting the riff raff.  This itself is evidence of a clandestine process beneath the show of street style posturing.  Only at the very end does my mind turn round and claim omnipotence.  I think of myself as a fairly observant individual, noticing quirks and peculiarities of my home.  The truth is that I only have this power because the spirit of this place has worked its way into my mind, tweaking here and there and opening up my receptors to local currents.  I have been infiltrated, changed, altered, re-educated far in advance of my dozy mind proclaiming that I speak the lingo like a native.  This is my mind keeping up appearances.  We must maintain the understanding that we are free players, buying and consuming cultural products like groceries.  At the end of this disturbingly non-subjective process of tinkering where no one seems to be in charge and tools and materials are thrown around willy-nilly the mind reasserts its dominance, nods to the workmen and carries on as if this was all its idea anyway.</p>
<p>As the walls start to shake and the foundations fail these things seem obvious.  I was absorbed and mangled by this city and ejected at the end someone else and I cannot go back or demand a reversal.  </p>
<p>I dived into this awareness and explored my helplessness.  I collided with others and I still have the bruises.  It seems unfair to me that having been equipped with the abilities to survive in my city environment I am thrown out and must now adapt my new-found skills to a very different location. </p>`
