I am surprised to learn that my sense of smell quietly owns the strongest impulses.  My hearing and my eyesight and even my taste are so finely attuned and well-practiced that they never really switch off.  They hum along in the background like old boilers heating chilly, high-ceilinged rooms, churning out information and delivering reports to deep centres of my mind that, like clockwork, run through that data and assign meaning with  an accustomed ease.  I am so used to understanding my world with these instruments that I never think to question them and our relationship is so close that whatever they offer up is unlikely to surprise me.  
Smell is different.  Deep and mysterious depths are stirred, esoteric cables and strings are pulled and scraped along dusty corridors where they had been lost.  Under piles of old rubbish and discarded matter objects from the old corners of the houses of my memory let out a soft light that draws me to them and compels me to rub off the dirt and wonder where they came from and the reasons for their obsolescence.  It is not so much the surprise at finding these again but the clarity of understanding of why I hid them here in the first place.
I am home again in the place that I grew up which means I cannot move for disturbing the clutter and scrap of spent present.  I am liable to trip, there is not much room left on the floor for my feet.  I have been fascinated by the distance between my city home and the countryside past.  Over the years I have noticed that it is not the familiar rolling hills and deep, warmly green valleys and neither is it the sound of larks and church bells but the tension of the air, the stroke of the wind and the smoke blanketing the hillsides.
In this sense, touch and smell become very close.  At night the air becomes taught like a bow string and disturbances of up to five miles off pluck at the network of crossed wires.  The chill smells sharply of deeply cold rushing streams but with the comforting warmth of seasoned wood.  Shyly and seductively a tint of cut grass and summer hay wanders through.
It seems to me that the air here is a canvas to be filled with native scents.  A variety of sweet smelling wood smokes are the broad base strokes, they steal up my neck and around my throat.  Green wood in the summer with a slightly sharp acidic bent and warm, lustrous hazy smokes in the dead of winter, old wood gone gladly the glut of memory scattering its excess over the fields of the county.
The self-styled intellectuals of my senses seize words from old books or gasp for representations to plaster the inside of my skull.  Wood smoke, mint, chalk-soil, furniture polish reach out simply and pull me closer, whispering in my ear and, smiling strangely, offer me a look I promise clumsily not to forget as carelessly as I forgot the small place where, waiting patiently, they first found me.
