`<h1>Histories i</h1>
<h2>Written by Hendra Wednesday</h2>
<p>We met some time ago at Kielder Water in Northumberland, Autumn Andersen and I.  Its wild but tidy out there: there’s no one around for miles only empty moorland and rocky shelfs dotted with the occasional low house.  Kielder, however was one of the first plantation sites for the newly created Forestry Commission and surrounding the artificial, dammed lake are acres of softwoods grown in tight lines to facilitate straight trunks.  The trees were to be used in case of war and an increased demand for timber.  This duality creates a strange tension – the land is old and worn, content in its solitude but the neat rows of pines give the place a stark visage as if it was lit from a low angle by a harsh cold light.  The commission is now old enough to have too been given a worn front and the treaty seems easy enough.  The land is no doubt more than used to the alterations by generations of humans.</p>
<p>Kielder is also one of the few of true dark sky zones in the country, places where the night sky can be seen close to its un-enlightened state.  The absence of the brushstrokes of light pollution is twinned with a resistance of the stars to name and form – here more than elsewhere the sky can insist on its non-meaning, on its depth of unknowing.  The brisk lines drawn by the ancients and their sky-tilting descendants seem brittle and tawdry, a flimsy attempt at drawing meaning from the looming vastness that defies any attempt to cage it within celestial identity.</p>
<p>The only other dark sky zone of note is the Salisbury Plains where Autumn grew up among both the Neolithic and postwar monoliths.  Stonehenge pointing the way beyond the sun’s gates; tank traps and pill boxes barring the way back.  Here too the sky can exists, elsewhere the darkness is too bright for people to sleep and needs to be blocked out by sodium vapour lamps and security lights.  I was told once,when visiting, by a local historian we met on one of the sticky, muddy paths that led to one of the numerous tumuli that it is solely because of the military intervention on the plain that these monuments exist at all.  Before being named and titled by those of note they were simply rocks and lumps to be turned over when they got in the way of the tractor.  Likewise, the area is empty of lights and dwellings as they might get in the way of stray bullets and shells that are sent spinning around the gathering gloom by young cadets.</p>
<p>We named these places and preserved them.  We wound them in barriers and fences and so titled them.  We not only found them but made them, here we make our stand against the encroaching moderns forgetting that we lead that column.  Fred Moten, in his book The Undercommons, invokes the hypocrisy of the white settler, supposedly surrounded in their fragile fort, beset on all sides by hordes of barbarous natives, forgetting their original incursion.  Settling, plantation (remember this was the term used by Henry VIII to name the process of “naturalization” in the uncouth Irish territories), zoning are illusory forts in this sea of savages – protected spaces, sites of historical importance endangered by the natural world.  But we forget - we are the settlers, the colonisers with our guns and diseases and those places are best left well enough alone.</p>`
