I am about to leave and my things are packed in boxes taking up too much space in the hallway.  I am not ready to leave.  
Leaving will be like tearing away the husk from a coconut.  The softer skin will rip and tear, the knots of fibrous hair will bind fiercely as the tension heightens.  Harder matter will crumble to dust and matt into the bed of twine and fill the air with musty scent.  Eventually the fibres will part, screaming as the last ounce of energy forces them apart quickly and brutally while the loosened ends will reach out forlornly for their lost brothers and sisters torn from them.  The husk will lie discarded and the rough fruit will pass on to be cracked by a greater force in the days to come.
As this happens to me and my home a reflection will be cast inwards rending the soft flesh that has grown about this comfortable spot.  Torn from the bedrock the jettisoned mass will bleed and tremble from its parting.
It goes on.  I am now living in two currents.  They swirl about my knees and the further I move towards the new the fast the old tugs, conjuring zephyrs and whirls to tempt me back.  One cannot stop.  I cannot terminate one flow and conveniently jump into another.  The old will have to deal with the loss, reform its banks and revert to an efficient flow.  The old will still flow within me though.  It will carry off the discarded husks as a funeral ship.  
Currents are related.  The new only flows because of the rushing of the old.  Two months ago this new never existed and there was only uninterrupted streaming.  It is here now and has always been here.  It is sustained by the gushing of the old stream churning up mud and weathering rock.  As long as the new flow of fresh and clear water flows in me I know the old trickles still far away from its lonely spring.
In some sense I will still live here in these northern fields.  Subtracted from the paths and squares I will carry on subsisting in the minds of the ones I loved.  I will not leave.  I was here once.
