`<h1>Wake</h1>
<p>I have left so many things scattered in my wake.  Tearing up the sodden earth as I pass and rending the soft matter of roots and grasses from the soft flesh of the field.  It bleeds as I do and gushing from the gaping holes comes all manner of life fluids that swamp my boots and spatter on my trouser legs.  I know this is the process of healing.  It is bloody and violent but it is also renewal and rebirth.  </p>
<p>The fragments that I have sown along my way have fallen into these pits and where they fall they make their home.  Sprouting, rooting, digging, growing.  They are discarded but not lost.  I had no choice but to jettison the load on my back and secreted in my pockets as I journeyed onwards.  As I go I collect but I must also give away and leave behind.  There is only so much I can carry.  </p>
<p>These things go on to catch in someone else’s shoe or tangle in their hair or tempt their eye from their feet to the brightly coloured stall and its smiling vendor or to make them wonder as they pass a large glass window on a busy shopping street or to make them stop mid-sentence in a crowded and noisy bar somewhere in town, the exact location forgotten in the fug of social life and city-living, as their consciousness stumbles a memory or fragment of conversation or maybe it falls into their lap from a high window lit cosily at night far above empty and cold streets or blossoms in the emotional part of this summer’s romantic comedy or is whispered late at night after a long, long evening spent idly wandering in a state of timeless and luxurious disinterest or thuds jarringly into the dense wood of bored contemplation that hardens when looking emptily out of a train’s window or is sung to you in the early morning by a choir warming up at the other end of the cathedral or is found half buried in matted and dank soil in the woodland that hosts the afternoon walk that takes place in the doldrums of a temporary residence or turns up unexpectedly on the driveway or an old dresser of a holiday home or is found at the bottom of a cup of tea served in a broad and shallow Perspex cup by a smiling and shyly intimate man and his slow-moving and gentle partner who own that teahouse no one ever has the time to relax in any more or in the gift of seeds that will grow into a fleshy green plant perfect for bathroom shelves in the new home given by a friend anxious for the recipient’s wellbeing in a new city...</p>
<p>My life is destructive.  I cannot go my way quietly and courteously, avoiding disturbing the dust on the old exhibits but I must announce my presence and saunter around the place, footsteps ringing loudly in the high ceiling and snapping against the stone walls and glass cases.  I set alight and extinguish I delve and I abstain I upend and I overturn.</p>`
