`<h1>Oscillations</h1>
<p>It is too hard to live moments as static fragments.  Frames bleed into frames until the oils are smeared across the deep canvas stretched finely as skin over fragile bones shivering under delicate tension.  Sounds are spliced as bundles of tape seamlessly washing through one another, amalgamating in the folds beneath my hand, fluid alloys that shimmer here and there and refuse pointedly to offer any clue of their home.  This is a place of joyful and wild mingling, throwing open all of the window of the varied bodies present, swapping clothes, expanding beyond whatever flimsy idea of identity was held.  Something clicks into place and whatever it was that made this scent the same as the scent that was found on hidden hillside far away is washed from the surface of the mind.  Everything is new, for the first time the infinite qualities of things become apparent and the wash the sense clean of any dusty libraries filled with books on botany, zoology and nomenclature.</p>
<p>Oscillation is the new reality.  When I have a firm grasp the frequency slows and becomes stately, refined and confident in its inexorable turning.  These are the times when the sunsets bleed golden fluid over the trees and the death of the evening becomes sweet and languid.  Tall ships appear lazily on the horizon and I alter my course as I wish, the blaze of lighthouses illuminating my way forward along the surface of the water as if someone had reached down and drawn out my path for me, the easy way through the steep sided hills, as if in a dream.</p>
<p>Sometimes I feel it becoming rougher.  The wind, before a light breath that stirred the hanging fragrances and brushed new paint over the fading oils, picks up and stalks through the long grasses, twirls the hems of coats and shunts its way through crowds regardless of rush or direction.  Things pick up, I am drawn forward, thrown high then plunged into dark valleys.  The rhythm becomes uneasy and off-kilter, waves and oscillations from different quarters modulating the roll of the carrier signal creating disturbing harmonics.  These transients echo and rebound down empty alleys hardened by the sudden yawing and swaying.  All certainty is lost and any new information, a few words, a glance gone awry, a misplaced greeting, can tip the now extremely unstable analogue sending skitters and distortions though the pulsing waveforms.</p>
<p>The frequency of these changes has not been missed.  Amongst these day to day micro fluctuations, a hum of discordant frequencies and harmonics, is the deep oscillation that drives the peaks and the moves from warm plains to rugged and rocky hillsides.  Recently the dense and tangled patches of complex flux have been dominant sending me into spirals of nerves.  Sorting through the wash is tricky and time consuming, my ears tingle and my eyes abruptly jump from one point to another.  My hands don’t obey my instructions, broadcasting noise makes most communication meaningless.</p>
<p>Encounters create tension.  Harmony and fluidity is easily disrupted, order and categories are broken open and the basic differences of all things are put on display to the mortification of their objects.  Tapestries become threads and friends become winds of wool and sinew.  A few new and lovely words tempered by a need for a new story make this thing shiver, until all of the flowing folds of vibrating fabric are loosened and fall to the floor.</p>`
