`<h1>Chapter \-: New View</h1>
<p>It seems that it is a good time to leave.  Always surprised by how far reaching actions are and how little I understand or notice them.  I am entertained for a moment as I think about all of the inconsequential decisions that I have taken and how their unheeded ripples affected other people’s lives in unexpected ways.</p>
<p>This time though I had decided to leave the big city, the new home, the second doorstep for a much larger city, the plughole, the talent sink, the place of dreams, the landing.  I had become restless and fidgety, lacking a sense of belonging and finding myself more and more fed up with the effort of making contact with friends who all seemed isolated themselves.  The idea felt momentous at the time but in the end it was only a simple matter of rotating my perspectives until my back faced my past and my face the bright lights.  On marking this event I saw that my way seemed clearer, thoughts and ideas came back with unexpected enthusiasm and I found new warmth for friends and places, rekindled by the looming separation.  I had begun to understand the taught tensions in the lives of close friends more keenly than before I had pulled myself out of the mire of habit and nerves. </p>
<p>As fundamental as this change was to my outlook it had strangely material effects too that I had not anticipated.  I felt a change in the air and others felt it too and I was not convinced that it had just materialised on the spot.  Perhaps my noticing of it had blown its cover and its disguise had fallen off in a rumpled pile on the floor, ludicrous in its sudden transparency.  Anyway, the effects were swift and decisive.  A close friend decided to leave for Europe, others mumbled quietly about moving on or finding a new job or settling down with a loved one.  Others who had been inches from having had enough for months gave in and made a change. </p> 
<p>We fled the naive home we had built and tried to maintain.  By this time it only had flimsy walls and no roof, the floor muddy and stained with excess and the garden path pierced with weeds and long grass.  Perhaps others will find it amongst the dense mess of greenery and I will always think of it fondly, like a shabby but much loved holiday home.  But it had become uninhabitable.  Sliding down the slope from the excitable possibility of a few years ago when we all convened here and sat for hours in the dawn light laughing and learning the place had slowly saddened and the energy needed to keep it healthy now far outweighed the energy of simply running away.  I feel a sharp guilt.  We were young enough to live unthinkingly and we made for ourselves a place that could not last.  We, without a thought, betrayed the opportunities of the place, let it slide into dilapidation and then abandoned it.  We simply did not have the strength or the resource to keep it and so we had to leave it, falling to pieces, behind.</p>
<p>I think we all still remember it, slightly sheepishly, and it keeps us fond of one another but it is not enough to keep us together and finally the last chords have broken and we are set free even though we have been free to travel our own paths for years.</p>
<p>Maybe I had done it.  Perhaps it had been me, expressing a desire to move on that had shattered the lens through which we had habitually peered at life.  My decision had freed everyone else and we all stood looking at each other relieved that someone had spoken aloud the thought that we had all been nursing.  Now we felt we could converse freely, even casually about plans that would mean the imminent dispersal of a once tight group of friends.  Once the subtle change had happened, once one of us made the seemingly brave but actually embarrassingly simple shift things seem to have been set in motion.  Or is this just my perspective, filled as it is with the close horizon of my time here?  The tension of holding us broke and we picked through its pieces, now fully visible, with something like complicity.</p>
<p>Of course we had been talking about it for months, others even before me.  The air had been full of it (we all knew that this space was temporary) but all the same it seems an action was required by one of us – all equals, all capable – to break the spell and turn idle rumination into reality.  In some way, our various plans had seemed like far off goals.  One had spoken a few times about resettling in Canada or the Netherlands, another about London and I had spoken frequently about unfinished business in Berlin or the appeal of places like Manchester or Glasgow.  We weren’t really going to do these things.  But then we did and betrayed our creative daydream, something wild to talk about like trekking through jungles or living in a cabin in Siberia and here we are in the surprisingly warm reality that it nevertheless devoid of wonder and filled instead with inevitability.</p> 
<p>We all had the idea but it hadn’t broken and now we all were innocent of the crime of moving away, we were free from the guilt of admitting we had not committed to this place.  Before we lived in fear of guilt suspended as we were in the potential to break our comfy little group.  This no longer matters and we are free at last.</p>`

