`<h1>Looks like You Don’t Want to be Here</h1>
<h2>Complained by Autumn Andersen</h2>
<p>I was at a gig the other night.  The Chicago punk band Meat Wave was playing and the venue was the Shacklewell arms.  About halfway through the set the lead singer and guitarist Chris Sutter asked if anyone had been to the anti-Trump rally protest held at Trafalgar Square that day.  Half of the crowd, including myself and the friend I was with, dutifully cheered and exchanged knowing looks.  Chris said he felt like he should apologise on behalf of the US and hoped that, although the 40,000 or so protestors that turned up were displaying distinct (and justified) anti-American feelings and anger at Britain’s apparent willingness to show Trump round the ol’ estate, we wouldn’t hold all Americans accountable for the actions of a few nutters, however irritatingly persuasive they supposedly were.  </p>
<p>Lumping collections of people that just happen to have existed in the same bit of the world and outwardly display a few common attributes is too easy.  I hope I don’t even have to mention the undercurrent of Chris’s comment having to do with holding all Muslims and Muslim immigrants to account for the behaviour of a few sects and governments, official or unofficial.</p>
<p>I don’t smoke but apparently all my friends and the rest of London do so the rest of the story takes place in the damp smoking area of the Shack.  I’d bumped into Eulis, guitarist for the band Dance-A-Thon, who had been brought along by a friend with a tired look in his eye that was later to be explained by muttered asides about a previous pub they’d been to and the long talk about “politics” that had taken place there.  Eulis was obviously still a little fired up which hadn’t been helped by the inflammatory shoutings of Meat Wave.  This was why he leaned over to me in a bit and said “they’re all the fucking same mate, you don’t owe any of them anything”.</p>
<p>If you’re a musician living in England then you also have a day job.  I know a few people who manage to live off music but even those lucky individuals often give instrumental lessons to stay afloat and, in the main, they have been in the game for a long time.  Eulis and I were talking about shit jobs that musicians end up doing to keep themselves going.  A day job needs to have a few things: enough free time to allow music round the edges (this includes no take-home work); flexible shifts; available to your average graduate/young adult left with basically nothing in today’s economic climate.  That’s it.  Working late and early are usually non-negotiable.  Pay is usually a bit below the living wage, sometimes much lower.  The work is often boring, exhausting or boring and exhausting.  Those working in the service industry also have to put up with emotional weariness, the continual horror of contact with the British public and continuing alienation due to illusory perkiness.  These jobs sustain most people I know while they work nights on various projects.  It seems to me that if you stood far enough back from the world or a Douglas Adams alien-fan took a glance at London through a telescope all they would see are young people taking turns to make coffee for each other.</p>
<p>(They would see plenty more.  As shit as I find this lifestyle at least I am spared working for a crumbling NHS, Sports Direct or not working and having to deal with the DWP.  I’ll come back to this.)</p>
<p>Our conversation had been about employers and the way they treated their staff and the expectations they laid on them.  Eulis had been accused, while working in a dive coffee shop in Stoke Newington, that he looked like he didn’t want to be there.  Response: of course I don’t want to fucking be here.</p>
<p>I’ll lay it out simple.  We are paid next to nothing to do sometimes fairly skilled work while also looking after and keeping happy a broad spectrum of customers that have to be faced at all times with a smiling face and words of platitude and apology.  In the wee small hours the place has to be got ready and in the evening everything needs to be cleaned.  These jobs are made harder by staff shortages due to either money-saving behaviour or lack of funds or a mixture of the two.  Fine.  Then we are required to hold a special place in our hearts for the company, to feel like we are treated as a family, and to make sure we put the reputation and image of the firm first.  This I have a problem with.  The conditions for these demands should not be employment, payment and security.</p>
<p>I have worked in service industry jobs that I have genuinely loved.  The work was still hard and at moments the emotional strain was too much.  I often complained about these jobs and was dogged by depression and exhaustion.  Nevertheless I can still say I loved them.  Granted the work was more engaging and the staff lovely (I still have a lot of friends from these places) but what it really came down to was empathy on the part of the owners.  They were human and took our concerns into account, treated us with respect and supported us throughout our daily lives.  A friend of mine’s girlfriend barely escaped from her flat as it burnt down around her and her boss gave her loan straight from the week’s takings.</p>
<p>Currently I have no reason to do more than the bare minimum at my job.  This is a poor and shitty existence and makes me feel terrible but pulling my socks up etc is valued no more than this base line.  I might get a few more hard stares but I can deal with that.  A lot is expected of us, included in which is apparently the ability to forget our trash pay and work to fulfil our true potential despite barely being able to pay the rent or do nice stuff.</p>
<p>My first point here was that grouping people into categories is problematic.  This is a well worked out leftist idea and there are plenty of writers doing a fine job talking about this (Reni Eddo-Lodge is a current inspiration for me).  In fact it is so well worked out that I am embarrassed by the simplicity of the assertion that “grouping people into categories is problematic”.  Stereotyping and profiling is a dangerous leftist tool too when used to talk about right-wing ideologues, capitalists, MRAs and so.  Rather than simply grouping people I would like to talk about an idea that Owen Jones describes in his book <i>The Establishment</i>.  The idea is to analyse groups of people by mentality and political or social connection instead of simply saying “posh people” or “Tories”.  The Establishment, Jones claims, is a group of people who do not simply share large amounts of wealth and power but also a mentality towards democracy, free-market ideology and the totally deserving position of power that they inhabit.  This is what makes them a coherent group of people, not just their immense wealth.</p>
<p>I would like to apply this idea to the small business that employ most British musicians.  Most are struggling entrepreneurs with high overheads and a very high chance that their work will fail within the year which makes simply slagging off bad bosses unfair.  Obviously as a good little socialist I feel bound to say that it is the entire free-market system which causes these micro-aggressions and exploitative situations but it actually goes beyond that.  The problem for most workers as they face it every day is the establishment mind-set which allows bosses and supervisors to treat their workers as flexible machines fit for any task one day and as expendable units the next.  I certainly do not gripe about the nexus of markets and finance we live in every morning when I wake at 530 a.m. and I if I do it was because I was reading Noam Chomsky the night before.  Usually I, and most other people I meet, feel worn down by the power struggles at work or the depressingly small pay packet after a 45 hour week.</p>
<p>Not that we shouldn’t also be looking at the bigger picture; these happenings are the small wheels in the big machine.  This grumble is about the everyday and the established feeling amongst service industry employers that minimum wage, relatively skilled share in their passion and belief that this is just the way things are.  We must accept our paltry pay because that it was people like us earn.  Opposition to this idea is met with disbelief and surprise that we envy the higher-ups higher pay.</p>
<p>The establishment mind says this:  minimum wage exists for a reason which is that it has been deemed by people-in-the-know as sufficient for ordinary people; that higher-ups deserve their pay as they worked hard to get it; that this pay hierarchy is democratic and natural in a social-darwinist kind of way; that this is all good for business; that low wages generate wealth; that if we really tried we could earn more money but oh dear you’re a creative we meant work hard and get and become an accountant.</p>
<p>This is not to say that all bosses are jerks.  I have been lucky in having mostly kind and considerate managers but they all shared this viewpoint and so, to my way of thinking, express typically Establishment ideals and opinions about minimum wage workers.  Being nice and being establishment can exist at the same time.  This is why I can forgive the places that I fell in love with: they avoided this type of social monitoring and treated us like equals and family.</p>
<p>I would like to conclude with two points.  The first is a return to the question of grouping.  I have found this way of looking at people’s assumptions about the working of the world in general and the world of work in particular to be very insightful.  It works across the “reverse-stereotyping” of some cultural theorists who resent being grouped into clusters like “millennials” or “Lefties” but can’t help but swing back with “fascists”.  Mentality and assumption intersect our normally demographically/politically oriented view of the world in interesting ways.  In terms of oppression and power relations I think it has its uses in feminist discourse and discussion on identity politics. </p>
<p>The second point is actually what got me writing this article.  A friend and I are in the habit of messaging each other long rants about bad shifts and customers and a constant thing that keeps coming up is “is it alright to complain about this?”.  In the end we are not working the Tube nightshift.  However, I still think it is still legitimate to analyse and break apart a very real part of our neo-liberal bubble, even if it is coming from a small corner in a Hackney coffee shop.</p>`