I have never really been able to believe in one
My life so far has been a multiplicity of lives and so far there has been no evidence, presented eloquently, argued convincingly of one.  I haven’t met or engaged with one or even seen one although I have often heard of it, been told stories about it, wallowed in other people’s dreams of it, been subjected to long films and ardent sagas of it.  It is a unicorn in the old myths: shy, reclusive yet pervasive, an image that we cannot let ourselves leave behind.  
The word “believe” is therefore an odd word to choose.  People believe in unicorns, God, etc.  Faith is sustained against, and maybe because of, uncertainty.  This archetype, character from a fable sits there comfortably safe in the knowledge that they will never be shaken from our imaginations, tirelessly reproducing itself in the minds of the faithful.  Belief is not knowledge.  I don’t know that there isn’t one, but I still don’t believe in it.  
I don’t spend my time looking for one, but waiting for something else to appear.  I am confident that they will.  
I have been asked “do you believe in the one? I do.  Someday I will meet them and my search will be over”.  Search for what?  Something lacking?  If life is made into a search then presumably there is something to be found, which means that when the something is found life too comes to an end.  The princess finds the lost prince and they lived happily ever after.  Cue fadeout on couple in front of romantic backdrop. Roll credits.  (Notice how the sentence starts in the present, the story is unfolding, we follow the footsteps of the heroes.  Then comes the shift to the past tense, we are suddenly looking at the events through the wrong end of a telescope, after the heroes’ lives are complete.)
Partition off a corner of the flow of story and the interfaces between people.  Reserve a tidy niche for the singular hero, the unique individual.  Exempt one person.
I don’t believe in one because they all come from the same stock.  They come and go and some stay by my side, happy to share parts of my life, work or just some words from time to time.  Waves appear often but subside.  I privilege a few, treasure others.
Still there is the shadow of an idea that distorts the flow of people through me.  We hear sounds from the woods that strike clear notes against our instincts.  Things live beyond the safety of our garden walls that have no meaning and were born from the minds of mad men.  They stalk just out of reach of the light from the kitchen window.  They slip into our dreams and pervade our waking hours so that we are never quite comfortable enough with our rational structures and common sense understandings.  
I don’t believe in one.  Still the silver hide of the unicorn is glimpsed among dark trees held by shadowy hills.
