Men make a lot of noise.  In an improvising session once I played alongside a few musicians playing synths and objects through effects pedals.  I stopped playing about fifteen minutes in because I could no longer hear myself.  When I looked up from my guitar, I saw three others, half the ensemble sitting, arms crossed watching the remaining two men make earnest noise for maybe another twenty minutes.  At no point in that time did these guys seem to realise that they were essentially soloing to each other or that the rest of the room had decided to stop playing with them.  
This point signalled my falling out of love with free improvisation circles.  What had been immensely freeing and exploratory had suddenly become dense with ego and chauvinism.  I had been lucky enough to learn alongside people who were receptive, forgiving and humble but further forays into the world brought me into contact with noise musicians who just seemed to be men determined to make an almighty racket.  They came with all the trappings – superior knowledge base, homemade gear, stories of the good old days, modular synths.  I don’t really improvise anymore and if I do I am careful to seek out likeminded queer musicians.  They can listen.
A friend of mine once told me that he reckoned there was an unspoken social rule that, should an individual have the means to make an almighty racket they also had the right to make an almighty racket.  This mostly pertains to amplified musicians, guitarists and the like, but I’ve lived in a community of dissident artists long enough to know from experience that this also extends to people with moderate to large sound systems.  In groups of people the person who can make the most amount of noise is allowed to make the most amount of noise. 
I make guitar pedals sometimes because I hate myself.  They usually work pretty well but they’re fiddly and temperamental.  My most recent build was a really simple clean boost, a clone of a pedal by the American company Zvex famous for the Fuzz Factory pedal.  They price it at £250.  It cost me about £8 in parts.  This pedal is called the Super Hard On.  The also, unbelievably stock a black version of the Fuzz Factory called “Black on Black Fuzz”.
Another famous fuzz is Electro-Harmonix’s Big Muff.  The sense of wilting, fragile masculinity is tangible.
