`<h1>Bolt cutters</h1>
<p>Albums made by women still seem to enrage men.  What’s interesting however is that the men seemed to be annoyed about something other than the women writing them.  It is no longer the fact that a woman has written an album (and is therefore flaunting <insert-characteristic-here> in public); the problem seems to reside in the ruckus caused in the wake of an album.  In this construction, the album seems to disappear along with the artist themselves and everyone focusses on the noctilucent trail of space-trash that flutters along, a few beats behind.</p>
<p>Fiona Apple released her album Fetch the Bolt Cutters in April 2020.  The album deals with topics ranging from being talked down to, having passion and aspirations quashed, abuse and violence at the hands of men, and having relations with other women poisoned by exes.  It’s a really good album.  One reviewer, Anthony Fantano, host of the youtube show The Needle Drop, got some of this wrong in his review of the album and some fans suggested that his misunderstanding of the themes coloured his final score (which was still pretty good).  Things escalated when twitter fans called him out on his mistake, something they considered to be ironic considering seeing as much of the album is given over to the subjects of male ignorance and authorial privilege.  Fantano answered belligerently and defensively (which is disappointing) and the debate heated up as these things do.</p>
<p>What’s more interesting is the online discourse.  Arguments raged.  People criticizing Fantano were given a rough time.  The general claim was that these disappointed and disgruntled music fans were disappointed and disgruntled not because a man had screwed up but because he had given their album a bad review.  These protestors were not pained by yet more sexism but by the far more prosaic and hypocritical problem of having someone disagree with them. The conclusion was that these types of fan were easily offended snowflakes, virtue signallers and lying scum who were hiding their childish perspectives behind noble ones.  The problem was, the magnanimous explainers of internet debates said, was that these people didn’t know that their actual problem was that someone didn’t like an album they liked – this whole feminism thing was some sort of neurotic disavowal.  How could it possibly be about women’s rights to representation and expression when these nutcases were clearly delusional, evinced by the fact that they chose to construct this argument in the first place?</p>
<p>In this firestorm the actual album disappeared, Fiona Apple didn’t get to say anything anyway because all these men decided they rather argue about something else.  Its as if society has got to the point where some women (white cis ones) are allowed to be critical of white supremacist patriarchy only if that doesn’t kick up a storm.  You can the soundsystem party only if it won’t wake the neighbours.  You can be gay but only if you don’t flash it in our face.  </p>
<p>We assume that these angry men got cross about the flashing.  They grudgingly allowed something to exist but couldn’t allow it to encroach on their world, which of course expands to include some people posting about it on facebook.  The actual feminist issues were subsumed by reactions to their effects – this twaddle about a bad reviewer allowed anyone annoyed by feminism to ignore something that requires engagement (ie an album) and focus on stuff they already knew (ie feminism bad).  No one was talking about the album or its themes despite the efforts of those willing to call out sexism.</p>
<p>In this weirdly distended knot, it looks pretty certain that men still really cannot stand women producing music.  It creates too much noise, too much irritating conversation that they have to listen to, too many internet feminists bleating on and on.  PhilosophyTube in their video Transphobia in the UK, chalks this down the postmodern shift from, on the one hand, moral/ethical objections on a subject (such and such is bad, against nature, scary) to, on the other, ontological doubts (think whatever you think, I don’t care).  The problem is not just that there are overt homophobes but that some people just don’t care and, in doing so, paint their world with compulsory heteronormativity.  The insidious beliefs behind the “do whatever you want to, just don’t come near me” statement is that the person saying these things doesn’t believe in either the object of their statement’s humanity or existence, that, you know, they’re wrong but who cares?</p>
<p>The same thing is happening in the Apple scenario.  These albums are allowed to be made as long as they don’t force sections of the population to confront their own prejudice, as long as they don’t disturb the calm waters of disbelief, as long as these men can continue to think that sexism no longer exists.  By calling out Fantano the unspoken rules of engagement were broken.  Men still hate women making music, but the course of their hate has been complicated by supposed tolerance and a disavowal of their unchanging sexism.  In the old days they would have attacked Apple herself, now they attack her fans for making a scene</p>`
