`<h1>Scatter Chapter ^: Lost in the Rooms</h1>
<p>And now everything is simply confusing.  All of this is unfamiliar, unrecognisable and also loopy.  I slept on a hard bed in a room painted a light, minty green decorated with spindly-legged tables and lamps with sludgy, rough shades that cast soupy light over everything.  My night was fractured and confused and I wandered through rooms much like mine (I think, I didn’t manage to absorb much) whilst looking for something I might have remembered.</p>
<p>Arriving two days ago my time here was chaos.  The hosts were busy planning for the big meeting and the hustle and bustle of people dressed in the uniforms of catering and hospitality companies crowded and organised and slithered and smoked and loitered and stamped.  Largely I kept out of their way and wandered the corridors searching for a view or an interesting gallery.  Friends and family were to be arriving in a few days but I had come early owing to various arrangements with work back at home.  So my footsteps rang out alone along the corridors where the floor changed smoothly from wooden herring-bone tils to threadbare carpets to rough floorboards.  Nothing was matched and seemed to have been the consequence of years of slow but careless collection on the part of some unknown and ill-educated curator.</p>
<p>During the night I had walked from my room and had lost myself in a rambling wing of the building where rooms appeared from nowhere and loomed in the place’s personal dusk.  It seemed that, in this particular part, the rooms had been spaced and then linked together precariously by passages and alleys so that nothing ran straight.  I had tripped down a narrow staircase then turned right, watched over by stern portraits all the way, along a passage that snaked around door frames that opened into empty rooms only partially walled.  The first I came to blocked, in part, the corridor so that it was forced to veer angularly to the right, the door set in the curve of the wall from the bulge of the room beyond that had forced itself on the snaking route.  However, on turning the bend and returning the original direction of the passage I noticed that the room was no longer walled on this particular stretch: I could look into room at the back of the door which opened from the first part of the corridor.  Unnerved I ascended to the attics and immediately felt more at home.  Fiddling with the standing lamps I fixed the lighting at a warm glow and sank into a soft sofa underneath the slanted white ceiling above.  For around ten minutes I sat here and drifted, lulled into a peacefulness that was difficult to come by in my green room, always standing to attention.</p>
<p>Turning to her I started to talk.  She was very close and the light seemed to curl around both of us and fill the space between our bodies.  We talked inconsequentially until I leaned in to kiss her briefly on the lips and I felt we were falling as we both suddenly guessed the heart of our circumstances and how we had been together.  I knew and she knew when we neither of us had known and I laughed with a sound that scraped through my lungs as that exact moment possessed a deep awareness of one another that I had never experienced and neither she.  We separated quickly but I had not surprised but excited her.  Of this I was sure but, lips wet and eyes cast down she left brushing her hands against my shoulder.  I got up, no longer comfortable.  I was confused and thrilled, my heart beat and my eyes rested on details that I had not at first seen.  She seemed to be everywhere and nowhere, leaving a trail through the achingly still air.  I moved quickly and looked through several other rooms without searching properly.  I leaned my back against a wall on a small landing containing only a dresser and fixated myself on her small form swathed in a black dress.  She whispered to me and while searching and not searching while finding and not finding, having already found but still seeking she playfully told me “later”.  I gasped and ran my hands through my hair, frantically scuffing my feet along the floors and the edges of staircases banded with the soft light of candle flames.</p>
<p>I continued, the crowds of the day before returning one again in their smart-suited mayhem.  The bleak, high ceilinged halls frightened me as I pursued my attic intimacy through cold air and funnel shaped corridors.  </p>
<p>The back entrance was filled with professionals armed with name badges and clipboards and communication was impossible.  I hung around by drab bannisters, everything now far more utilitarian.  Servants’ passages.  Still the room was vast and the cacophony of organisation reverberated through its damp, sweaty stillness. Sickly and sticky the incense burned in these parts clung to the wooden beams and stairs and fading plasterwork and came off on my fingers and the jackets of the orderlies.  I tried to find my way back.  Signs were everywhere but none of the meaningful and men shouted instructions.  I was trying to find the high rooms in the older part of this wing, I gestured upwards and to my right.  “Where are the tower rooms with the attics and lofts, the high windows and winch-gates?” but no one listened.  I was in the right part and I thought that if I simply climbed the stairs I would be able to get back, my arms already missed the not quite embrace I had just had or maybe was heading towards.  Shouts went up as a long and stringy man leant over the balustrade and toppled over it!  He fell clammering and I left in disarray aching for her and another kiss.  </p>
<p>I am not sure if I found her there, her ghost pushed away by the noise and confusion but I awoke soon afterwards and she stepped through my day always hiding around corners and appearing in the shadows of smiles and the gleam of bright eyes.  Does she know what happened if she is even party to this information</p>`
