`<h1>Chapter “”: Stuck in Boring Bars</h1>
<p>I am stuck in a boring bar.  I have never understood why someone would want to put so much wood in a really damp or potentially really damp place.  Basically all of the table tops have gone soft and sticky and the bar seems to be rotting under the dribble of warm beer.  I have bought myself and a scatter-brained old man a pint each of 501, only because a friend of mine had been wearing a T-shirt that afternoon with that number printed over his chest.  It isn’t too bad.  People look at me.  People are always looking at me for some reason but I’ve found that drunk people look at me more intently and often want something from me.  I don’t really know why, maybe I have a particularly helpful face.  Anyway I’m sitting there on a red cushioned sofa thing that only pubs seem to have striking up dull conversations with the clientele all of whom are local and older than me apart from a group of teenagers much younger than me sitting away in the corner and looking smug as they are allowed to drink here despite being demonstrably under age.  Still they all look at me and the conversations are confusing because of the accents and general background sounds.  </p>
<p>There is no one even remotely interesting to talk to and I am pushed into buying another pint for Ernie which is the name the scatter-brained old man goes by.  I queue and pay and receive an unsolicited lecture from a middle aged tall man in baggy jeans and a fleece who tells me that the beer I have just bought does not come from a bottle (which I knew (and he knew I knew) as I had just seen the bar person pull it out of a tap) but from a “brog” whatever that was, maybe something he had just invented on the spot.  He was clearly out for some approval which he did not receive.  Somehow my beer came in a smaller glass and Ernie’s in a larger-than-pint tumbler, luck of the regular obviously.  They all looked at me to see if I would complain.  Both glasses said “pint” on them.  I left Ernie with his beer and sat back down resigning myself to long and dreadful hours ahead.</p>
<p>This particular place was in the middle of the countryside a little way out from the place I had grown up in.  Still the same sort of feel but far enough away to be unfamiliar and my dwindling local accent and customs to count for very little.  All the men had sparse, shrubby beards, rubbery grins and oblong glasses made out of the bottom of beer bottles.  Farm hands and pub owners and corner shop standers and railway maintenance men.  The women wore flowery dresses and jeans had short spiky hair and smoked.  In fact everyone smoked.  And they all looked at me.  Hidden in between two sloping, bare hills on the plain this pub looked after the inhabitants of a few scattered, modern houses on a scar of chalky dust bordered by pine plantations and military zones.</p>
<p>On the whole I hate going into pubs and bars.  Being in pubs/bars is fine and I have no problem with drinking.  It is the moment of recognition I hate when I enter the door and stop to look round, catch my bearings and so on and everyone seems to look at me.  I never fit in and I shrink down inside leaving my skin to maintain outer appearances.  The bar is either too local (I will never be local, wherever) or too old or young or whatever, too studenty, not studenty enough.  I seem to perpetually fit into the bracket held dear by local people or unimaginative people (not mutually exclusive terms by a long shot) and called “trendy”.  I am not trendy but they seem to think I might perhaps look like how a trendy person could feasibly look like.  So on goes the looking.  Walking home I bump into drunk people who aim straight for me or don’t watch where the fuck they are going.  They ask me things or shout.  They can’t seem to leave me alone.</p>
<p>Another place I got stuck in recently was an underground bar hole for students.  Lights on the purple end of the spectrum and no chairs but hard cuboid cushions chosen for their ability to be wiped down rather than their comfort-factor.  Tins of Fosters strangely overpriced which confused my sense, gained from experience, to choose the best beer for the lowest price (not necessarily the cheapest).  Again no one to talk to and just drifting through the flickering lights.</p>`
