The night of my 27th birthday I sat out in the burning dusk and waited for the stars to reveal themselves to me.  The last of the sun light was being dragged over the horizon, the dangling weight making the fabric taught and brittle and it rattled over the loose stones that lazily flung handfuls of dust into the still air.  From my low vantage point the waist high white walls glowed with their temporary coat of honey-covered paint.  Beyond them the bank of shingle obscured the sea and the misty and mysterious Isle of Wight.  From my low vantage point I could only see wall and shingle.  Letting my mind wander in the quiet hour before star rise I thought how the island would look if the sea wasn’t there – a wide and shimmering stretch of rock and pebble reaching to the hills on the horizon broken here and there by tough shrubs of sea-kale.  From my low vantage point I could see only the top of bone white tower sitting on its powdery hill.  Heat rises over the plain but the tower shines like a lantern.  Dusty and dry the hill in its stark raiment holds court over dun, brick and flint.  Over the brim lies the reflected sun and all it would take is a few footsteps to wish away the sea and burn all moisture from the bed of supple rocks.The light drains away and the stars cede the stage.  Arcturus appears first to blow the horn of the night, to call all other voices to the midnight canvas, the herald of celestial painting, the first stroke and starting line.  From hereon out we are unequal and draw out own paths in the stony gardens of the night sky. Lyra shines the first to answer the call and their light and kind voice illuminates brash Hercules embarrassed at such an introduction, his fame not as far reaching these days.  Aquila flies serenely in the Lyra’s lantern and the thought that they may be misrepresented never occurs.  Scorpius flies their tail over the horizon but wisely keeps out of sight behind the low burning of the container ships.  I search for Vulpecula, my favourite, but the light is not right and their dark coat and bright eyes go unnoticed.  Ursa Major my old friend hangs suspended by the silver chain around Polaris’ wrist – the emblem of home and my withered hills and crowns.I want to read more but the brush strokes fade as more and more join the throng and I am left only with the multitude of voices, now to strong to pick out voices.
